index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Hello World!
tagline: Supporting tagline
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Read [Jekyll Quick Start](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/usage/jekyll-quick-start.html)

Complete usage and documentation available at: [Jekyll Bootstrap](http://jekyllbootstrap.com)

## Update Author Attributes

In `_config.yml` remember to specify your own data:
    
    title : My Blog =)
    
    author :
      name : Name Lastname
      email : blah@email.test
      github : username
      twitter : username

The theme should reference these variables whenever needed.
    
## Sample Posts

This blog contains sample posts which help stage pages and blog data.
When you don't need the samples anymore just delete the `_posts/core-samples` folder.

    $ rm -rf _posts/core-samples

Here's a sample "posts list".

<ul class="posts">
  {% for post in site.posts %}
    <li><span>{{ post.date | date_to_string }}</span> &raquo; <a href="{{ BASE_PATH }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>

## To-Do

This theme is still unfinished. If you'd like to be added as a contributor, [please fork](http://github.com/dbtek/jekyll-bootstrap-3)!

Commit message:

Modify navigation menu placement, write new index page, add photos.

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Astrophysicist & Software Developer
tagline:
---
{% include JB/setup %}


<!--- Enable markdown parsing inside of a div using markdown="1" --->
<img class="img-responsive img-thumbnail"
    style="float: right; width: 55%; margin: 5px;"
    src="/images/brian-at-chara.jpg"
    alt="A photograph of Brian Kloppenborg at CHARA" />
**Hi I am Brian Kloppenborg. I am an astrophysicist with a knack for everything
technological.**

Right now I develop massively parallel software, write grant applications,
perform technical marketing, and a myriad of administrative duties in my
Research Scientist position at [ArrayFire](http://arrayfire.com).

I conduct astrophysical research as part of my adjunct
professor position in [Georgia State University's](http://gsu.edu)
[Department of Physics and Astronomy](http://phy-astr.gsu.edu/).
Most of my research focuses on resolved observations of stellar surfaces,
eclipsing binaries, and novae using optical interferometry.

While not working I like to explore the outdoors, experiment with new technology,
come up with innovative solutions to otherwise benign problems, and play old
video games.

-----

## Recent posts

<ul class="posts">
  {% for post in site.posts limit:5%}
    <li><span>{{ post.date | date_to_string }}</span> &raquo; <a href="{{ BASE_PATH }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
